hello everyone this is yuman Zang I'm
the CEO and co-founder of TR zero I'm
really glad to have you here today for
our customer success leadership study
it's a study that was done by turn zero
alongside with our co-sponsors ESG
saster and HubSpot and today we're going
to talk about some of the mo more
interesting findings that we found from
the study we'll talk a little bit about
the study and then we'll dig right into
some of the details my co-host today
really happy to have two great guests we
got Pao Sullivan and Jason lkin two
folks who really understand SAS who
really understand customer success and
we'll have a really good time talking
about some of the findings let me start
with Colleen Colleen welcome thanks for
inviting me my name is Colleen o salivan
as you mon said I am the VP of our
integrated customer experience team
which is a pillar within our customer
success team at HubSpot and for those of
you that may not be familiar with
HubSpot HubSpot is a customer platform
that is this AI power solution that our
customers use to connect businesses and
their customers to help them grow better
and it's a combination of three
different product layers that are all
connected by Design and it basically
what HubSpot does is puts the customer
at the center of every action with
inside your HubSpot platform all right
thank you colen welcome and Jason
introduce yourself as well sure Jason
Lin founder of saster which is the world
largest community for SAS Founders and
Executives um excited to be here and
excited that we have this data right
I've been passionate about this topic
since I started as a founder and sas's
been writing about it for 11 years and
some of the stuff that when I go back
and look at the original stuff that I
wrote 10 11 years ago it was right but
there was no data and having actual
objective data on this from
1263 respondents that churn zero did
it's pretty epic so I'm excited to dig
into the data and HubSpot for what it's
worth not only do the majority of folks
watching and listening are already
HubSpot customers hubspot's kind of I
think so right thank you customers yeah
but I also think they're great because
hubs spots listen hubspot's over two
billion in AR so in some ways it's not
like all of us but the fact that it the
fact the types of products itself SES
Marketing sales support its price point
10 15K or so it's like a lot of us so I
love to learn from HubSpot at saster
because of there's it's one of the
handful of leading SAS companies that's
the most like the rest of us so Stud I'm
a student HubSpot as well as a fan and a
customer all right welcome so couple
things by the way both saster and
HubSpot create great content right
renowned great content so if you are not
taking advantage of it please do and
Jason to your point there's one tweet
you made probably 10 years ago that I
still use and that is customers success
should be a single digit hire right
which is it's got to be one of the first
10 people that comes joins your company
right so it's just a good sort of
actionable content for both saster and
HubSpot make sure you take advantage all
right let's talk about this study the
history of the study this is the fourth
year we're doing this study the reason
why we started it was when we started it
wasn't like Jason said there were was a
lot of ideas about customer success but
there were not a lot of Cs Focus studies
so we decided to partner on this at
12200 63 survey respondents is the
biggest survey in the industry so just
to give you a sense the largest
representative samples make a lot of
sense right generally these are leaders
directors and Senior directors only one
to five years in customer success right
you know what we're saying a lot of
people are still need to customer
success it's which also means it's
growing really quickly and you can see
it tends to be probably a mid Market
most of the survey respondents are
midmarket companies have been around
between 6 and 10 years and with nrr just
over 100 to 111 so let's actually go
quickly and talk about
influence all right so this is basically
what's the highest title of your
customer success leader CCO a VP
director CN director there hasn't been a
whole lot of change here right maybe a
little puts and takes here and there so
let me ask maybe Colleen this question
first we still believe that CS is
growing in importance what's your
thought about CS the importance of Cs in
SAS and how does it reflect or not
reflect in the title changes first of
all I'm in CS so if it's not
important I be in the wrong business
here so I am absolutely an advocate of
the Cs organization and yes it is
growing importance I think now more than
ever businesses are looking into their
install base and saying how do we make
sure that we're protecting our customers
doing the right thing for our customers
because that is how businesses are going
to scale and grow and certainly there's
a lot of untapped potential that maybe
businesses haven't always thought about
when it comes to their install base
versus filling the top of the funnel so
I would say despite what one would call
some concerns around titles I don't
think that's necessarily telling telling
us that CS isn't important in SAS it
certainly is so Jason Let Me Maybe I'll
challenge you here yeah we've been
calling the ascendants of the CCO at
least we have a turn zero we think there
are more CCO than ever and yet the data
doesn't reflect that did you see a
disconnect here I think even in 2023 the
head of customer success is this
amorphous reporting structure and
Colleen can challenge me or say the
others but for sure but I see most scale
ups and startups it's lost no one really
wants to own customer success the co
doesn't mind the founders because all
founders are passionate about our
customers right so at some level we want
to be profoundly involved in customer
success but but do we want to own it do
we own the metrics and the people and no
we'll talk later about having it report
to sales I'm personally very opposed to
that I thought it was a bigger Trend but
the data suggests otherwise marketing
that's pretty uncommon right so I I
think the good news is that there's
plenty of VP titles out there which we
could chat about but I don't think we've
solved this issue of who to customer
success report to when I talk with cosos
and Founders I give the answer it's got
to report to you okay that's got to be
the answer and maybe that's for customer
success professionals because it gives
them a seat to the table but it's not
necessarily for the right the really the
right reason I still think it's tough
but it's not clear exactly who owns what
and I think it leads to a lot of at the
edge anxiety in the industry in my
experience ucation there too Jas I think
that's part of it where you're saying
nobody wants to own CS that's just
because there's a lot of confusion as
what is the value honestly like what is
the value that this team brings and our
articulating that sometimes is what
causes those challenges in my mind is it
that nobody wants to own CS because it's
a hard job a thankless job what's the
reason do you think Jason for folks not
wanting to own CS I think it's two
things I think and you're in the growth
phase we become overwhelmingly
sales-oriented to a fault right which
I've talked about years we all become
customer new customer oriented right we
say we're focused on our existing base
but once you have a sales team and once
the sales team becomes like 30 40% of
your head account it tends to dominate
every conversation what's the big deal
what's in the pipeline what's going on
every conversation and there's not a lot
of oxygen left in organizations for
maintaining customers it's all wrong as
we know in any organization with triple
digigit nrr the conversation should be
flipped right we should be spending all
of our oxygen on making our customers
happy and worrying a little bit less
about the incremental customer but it's
not the way B2B businesses work right
we're just overwhelmed we're all sale
we're either premium or s cells driven
and the founders have to fight this they
have to force this almost unnatural way
we work as humans because our energy
does not reflect our Revenue structure
we don't put the amount of energy into
customer success that recurring Revenue
deserves in SAS we don't put the ratios
right we don't get the pie chart and
Colleen has that flipped for HubSpot
imagine that even at HubSpot now it is
the Cs team that's probably driving the
most incremental new revenue or at least
it's close at least it's substantial
yeah I think that Jason's right you're
right here HubSpot is trying to put like
a deeper emphasis on our CS teams but
obviously that doesn't necessarily mean
that we're growing or we're in in in the
right positions always to be able to do
that at the level that we need to the
survey highlights a lot of these
tensions there's a third plong that just
makes this whole Space interest
intellectually interesting and
complicated which is there's only so
much money to go around and there's two
threads first of all it's hard to get
perfect data but if you try to analyze
different data sources typically
companies at scale um HubSpot certainly
at scale spend about 5% of their revenue
fully burden including benefits whatever
on customer success so that's not really
5% in terms of raw salary right so I
wrote an early saster post about the $2
million woman or man right which was
what I thought it was at scale but I
said if you're SC do 1 million right one
CS person per 1 million I still think
those are the right rules today but
we're in this era of new efficiency
today right which is Chang it's even
changed at HubSpot it's changed across
the board and that 5% is getting
squeezed and so we all want more money
for CS we all want more humans we want
more help we get that oh my gosh 25% of
our Revenue goes to the sales team but
only 5% to CS it doesn't really make
sense the 5 to1 ratio but what are you
going to do in an efficient era like you
can't manufacture C in 2021 we could man
manufacture Capital how we can't
manufacture it today so there's a an era
of Reckoning which is makes everything
harder and I think CS is bearing a lot
of the brunt it's bearing a lot of the
brunt here I think we'll see that let me
go to the next one okay so we asked the
question are your teams growing or
shrinking and you can see that the dark
blue was 2023 actually I would say
surprisingly almost half of the Cs teams
were growing 45% and then 42% were
saying the same only 133% were letting
people go any thoughts on this to me I
expected more given all the talk of
layoffs in the SAS Community the last 12
months Jason May Al thr it to you since
you do see a lot of SAS companies if you
really look at the data layoffs seem
like a big deal but they're and I don't
mean to trivialize it because the human
impact's huge they're not that big a
deal what I mean is there's a lot of
startups and unicorns that got
overfunded that laid off a lot of people
but at the public companies the layoffs
for the most part were small for the
most part they're done and many of them
are rehiring I'm not exactly sure what
hubspot's doing but Salesforce samsara
Monday all basically did hiring freezes
last year and a freeze is basically a
hidden layoff it's a nicer layoff
because people leave right but it's
rehiring so as much press as they get I
don't know that it should impact things
is it's not as dramatic an impact
overall as it looks in the media I think
a bigger impact was freezes and try and
getting to this area efficiency we're
going to have to deal with fewer heads
per account going forward
and that I think's a bigger deal than
layoffs yeah I mean we had layoffs at
HubSpot it was obviously fairly public
and then we had a hiring freeze and we
are hiring again but yes we are thinking
about how do we hire internally right
there's just business changes that
happened where maybe one team was
growing at a record speed and then when
we went in and start to dig into the
actual strategy behind is is that the
right place to invest strategy equals
choices as we all know and we've had to
make some tough choices at HubSpot
around what teams we're investing in and
what ones we want to scale in a
different way and being able to dig into
your existing employee base and say hey
like there's a opportunity for us to
shift Direction here and that's been
pretty successful for
us there's sort of two areas that are
easy I put easy in quotes nothing's easy
but where broad leadership what it's
easy to hold the line on rather than
increased expenditure one is longterm
marketing spend which I think is a
terrible idea but most marketing a lot
of companies marketing spend the last 18
minuts all pivoted to this quarter okay
what can I do for marketing spend not
for brand not for awareness like right
now there's plenty of budget for this
quarter and there's no budget for next
year so that's still reverberating in
marketing I've see sastra has enough
sponsors we have 200 I can see a little
bit of a change but it's minor right and
the other one is let's just hold spend
on CS
flat we love CS but look let's be honest
it's HubSpot they're going to renew I
know we should put more money into this
but when things are stressful we have
some of the highest nrr out there for
smbs I not that I don't want to spend
but maybe we'll skip on our 2025
marketing budget in more and CS I'm not
saying literally that happened at
HubSpot but these are the conversations
that are happening across boards yeah
and those are the two areas to to pull
back on a marketing to hold on in CS and
so these two areas are buing some of the
biggest Bruns out there that's flat and
it's going back into it like we talked
we've been talking a lot about offici
IES but I think it's it's been hard but
the challenges is right like the pushes
are right we've had to go back and
really understand what do our customers
need what are our customers telling us
what are those really important
Investments that are going to help us
make the best customer experience at
scale and it's been a challenge but I
think it's going to ultimately really
benefit our customers in the long run as
we continue to improve upon this I'm
seeing especially for folks that are S&B
focused I'm seeing far larger onboarding
teams I am glad that onboarding
percentages has become a core kpi
because it's one of the best ways to
bring down churn for smbs right if they
never start if they never use the
product they're going to churn as an SMB
right so I've seen a lot of
organizations where maybe traditional CS
is growing moderately but I see large
teams thrown at driving activation rates
into the 90s in the first 30 days and I
I think that's one of the best
investments you can make as leadership
right there's nothing sadder than
marketing qualifying talking and closing
a customer and then they never use your
product it's like the saddest thing in
all of the life cycle there when people
ask me what are the top three things I
can do for retention I always say on
boarding on boarding on boarding and I'd
like to know where it sits does it sit
in customer success does it sit in Ops
is I'm seeing more and more onboarding
teams reporting to sales which I don't
personally love but whatever works is
also my role whatever works to some
extent right boing is part of our
Services organization Services I see the
line services and that activation within
the first 90 days you're both absolutely
like it's the critical piece to getting
customer retention yeah I think it's
interesting Jason that you're saying
that you're seeing onboarding teams grow
I think at HubSpot we're definitely
trying to better understand that first
90 days of a customer's life cycle to
the best ability and figure out like
what are the right Investments and
resources that need to be there and how
do we leverage partner Partners is part
of that ongoing experience as well that
certainly is something that HubSpot has
really started to dig in much more
deeper over the last couple of years is
that doesn't necessarily have to be an
internal team has to figure out what
good activation looks like but how do
you leverage these great capable
Partners to help us with that as well
yeah it's a great way to do it too right
if you have Partners or whether they're
pure Partners or whether your agencies
or other partners can do that some of
this heavy lifting it's a good way to
get it done too right you don't
necessarily have to have it be internal
it is pretty heavy lifting for for some
products right so worth the investment
so this actually finding the only thing
I would find interesting here is that
compar to head count budgets decreased
more right that's a percentage people
lost more budget than they lost
headcount is that just you know you
always when budgets get squeezed you're
going to hit everything else first
travel training software is it as simple
as that Jason Colleen I think we've been
through something last 18 months I've
never seen in my life in SAS with the
possible brief exception of February
2016 I've never seen app layoffs before
I've only been through one round of
layoffs in a big company but the way
human layoffs work in big companies you
sit around the room and everybody and
they say guys I know it's tough but
we're over budget 5% of we're gonna have
a 5% attrition at the company and all
the VPS get together and look I know
it's tough but the truth be told you
know who your bottom 5% are so it's
actually after that that layoffs get
really hard but everyone put they
literally put names into the table I've
seen that with time and time again with
companies this is the first time I've
seen it where people got together with
apps because there was such an app
explosion the last 18 months every
company got around the table and whether
it was CI driven and bigger companies or
CFO driven they said listen everyone's
got to give up a couple of apps we never
saw app layoffs we saw this and that
churn but we never saw people go around
the room and people gave up apps they
loved for the first time but they gave
up apps they loved so they could keep
apps they needed and that's why you need
folks need an all in one platform like
HubSpot it actually help the sweets
benefited from apps lofs for sure they
massively benefited they massively
benefited yeah I might have this other
little thing but wow I can get it in
HubSpot yeah exactly this conversation
happened happens every week still we're
not through we're getting through the
app layoffs because they actually were
pretty successful but this was like the
Revenge of the suite if it was in
HubSpot or another platform you just
stuck with your it was the simplest
thing to do right right there's always
to give the the back and forth between
best and breed lots of apps and then the
platform and it'll go back and forth
listen if it's in HubSpot the bar is
pretty high okay I don't know every
piece of the marketing Suite it's so big
but it was very interesting HubSpot CRM
is it's Incorporated a lot of
functionality that you have used pay
Standalone especially for Salesforce
there's so many of these apps and it's
all built into HubSpot so the bar to do
some of these functions on the serum is
just super high I don't need my calendar
or scheduling or visibility or recording
because it's all part of the S it
doesn't mean there aren't best of breed
vendors so traditionally what happened
is look if you got above that line you
were in because you were so good that
you beat the free but I never saw him
get laid off I never saw that if you got
above the best of breed app that you
didn't spend the next decade putting
your whole compan like HubSpot can't put
all of its Engineers into these
functionalities right so the Standalone
vendors if they get above the hump I
never saw them churn but the last 18
months especially in the sales category
you've seen brutal turn brutal everyone
Cuts CRM apps right across their sales
teams brutal turn from beloved apps so
that is different right yeah and that
probably is what driving when your
budgets go down you're going to hit the
apps first and then you're going to hit
the people second right so that's why so
I don't I think the learning from the
last 18 months is best of breed we
thought it was enough it's not
necessarily enough in tougher times I'm
going to actually I'm going to pause at
for a second here describe this chart
but I want to talk about it later
this is this chart needs a little bit of
explanation but this is back to your
point Jason basically if your csm's own
a million doll book of business you know
if you're a $500 million doll company
you should have 500 csms right if they
own a $2 million book of business they
should have 250 yet the biggest teams we
saw were only 100 99 in this category in
other words csms have a very large book
of business right four million five
million things like that so we'll talk
about that later in terms of efficiency
I want to put that all together but just
just give that slide I want the bars on
the left to be true but if you think
about the fact that all of your CS
expenses have to fit into 5% of your
Revenue it has to be the one on the
right 100 is going to be roughly 5% is
that your benchmark is 5% because some
folks I've seen five to 15% Jason when
you're growing and you're pre-public and
you're well funded you can make
decisions you can't make as a public
company everyone's efficient HubSpot
Monday sales Force everyone is in a new
area of efficiency right even the public
companies colen could talk about we
every the public companies got a pass in
2021 no one cared if you were efficient
as long as the Topline was there so
these bars worked in 2021 they don't
work for anyone except a handful of
Blitz scaling unicorns today no one can
a it's not that these aren't good ideas
but you just can't afford them as you
scale there's not the dollar only has
100 cents in it this is stuff in SAS
there's only 100 cents in the dollar and
where are you invest test your humans
and how they touch your customers that
is essentially what every CS team is
thinking about right now that one Chu
model where you are literally
handholding a customer we're really
thinking about what is the value what's
the impact that we're having with those
inter interactions with those
engagements and I think that's a
everybody is rethinking how we set up
our teams let me give you an example
just for a fun one there's a 10 Billion
Dollar Plus decorn not public yet where
I'm tagged a VIP customer I can see it
when I log in okay I have all the
special stuff I lost my CS person I
tried I had an issue this week I
couldn't talk to anybody this company
has raised I don't know couple billion
dollars but they have to be more
efficient too it's 2023 right I
literally log in I have all this I'm
blessed to be a v i don't have a human
why do you think it is it's this chart
right I don't have a human anymore right
I used to get a 60-second response time
now I get a nuns response time I was
dumped into standard support from VIP
support and there are no humans on
standard support anymore so I could not
find a human to solve this problem this
was a million dollar problem million
doll okay either Jason I think there's
you know what we're trying to figure out
create still that great customer
experience right with not all not being
able to offer White Glove to everybody
right or if you're going to offer White
Glove maybe you have to pay for
it maybe our software isn't good enough
I'm not speaking about HubSpot but maybe
in general my belief is we build sloppy
software in
I think we will fail if we're not the
first vendor to make software that is so
good in the space you do not need humans
to on board it doesn't mean eliminating
humans it means using Ai and other
things to make it so great that an SMB
that barely logs into a computer can
self onboard and that's where we got to
we have to make better software so that
our CS people can do higher value
activities yeah ease of has to be the
one like one of the top problems that
you're solving for in order for yeah and
that is critical in order for us to any
customer to feel like they
can execute on their software
successfully ease of use Colleen had hub
spot for your team have you been given a
bigger book over the last 12 months or
being asked for ecsm to take a bigger
book in the next 12 months due to any
efficiency gains from AI or whatnot is
that being asked directly of you right
now we are deep within planning at the
yumon
but yes we are a we are being asked to
think more efficiently and I'll be
honest with you there are a lot of great
I know we haven't mentioned like the
million-dollar word AI use cases within
CS that we are trying to figure out
right now within HubSpot where digital
where AI can help take the place of
where maybe there was a human
intervention and really understanding
that customers Journey along their
experience with hub spot to figure out
when does a customer really need a human
and when is there a digital engagement
that also can solve for them and that's
trying that's also going to help inform
how we're going to be managing our books
of business going forward let's talk
about it right now 43% of the Cs team
have adopted AI already have adopted AI
which means that 57% have not does that
make sense to you one It Feels by the
way it'll be feels hard to actually
avoid AI Nows right even know how 57% of
people are getting away with actually
not using AI thought Colleen are you is
there AI I know there's AI technology
and helps spot I'm sure your CS teams
are using it but are you really focused
on making sure they're getting you know
20 to 40% productivity enhancements over
the next few years from you're
hyperfocused on this not just focused
hyper focused this is it this is how our
teams will grow like full scale right
being able to give them the tools that
provide them the right Insight on their
customers the right drivers for how do
they manage their time efficiently and
effectively understanding opportunities
within their install base like it's all
this and if we don't get this right we
will fail we will fail our customers and
so this is absolutely critical for us as
part of a massive Focus area for CS one
quick thought on this I do think AI is
super important of course it's
everyone's top priority going to
Colleen's point right I think for post
sales though what really matters is
automation for most folks and we call
it's great to call this Ai and it is AI
like generative AI is absolutely brand
new and disruptive right but what really
matters is positive experience
automations I don't know that acronym
exists
peas you want not just how many
interactions are automated right but how
many are done in a way that the customer
is happy with right because some are
terrible right this is the problem with
non AI Bots or Med medoc Bots the
experience is abysmal right if you can
automate away 40% or more of human and
that's positive that's a that's what I
find best to breed folks looking for 40%
with a great experience not with a
mediocre experience or my inability to
reach a human on a million-- dooll
problem yesterday or this week and but
if AI doesn't do that if it's just a
crutch it's okay but it's not going to
be a game changer for the other issues
in this presentation there's two parts
of it like what your customer sees from
an automation part perspective but also
when you're like I'm talking internal
teams tools and that that's the part
that's okay you've got a human and you
want them focus on the most important
actions with that exactly yeah so how is
AI supporting them and their time
management so that they're driving the
right behaviors with your customer
things that AI can't do right and then
of course there's the automation piece
where you want to make it easier for
your customers to get the answers they
need through you know chatbots the
knowledge Bas other digital resources
but I think there's two parts of getting
this puzzle right as we look at next
year and it's not going to happen
overnight either this stuff is like
tough right and making sure that we've
got all the right parts of this together
in order for us to adopt all of this
next year is where we're at right now
and now we can spend an hour on AI let
maybe ask one specific question because
there are questions from the audience
they just they want to know two or three
things they ought to do right now in CS
with AI that will have an impact I can
add one or two but Colleen is there one
or two things that you think made a huge
difference of saving time and energy for
your CS there's a ton of data right for
a CS a customer success manager come in
and manage their day-to-day I think
being able to create tools that are like
serving up the right information to your
CS person so that they don't have to
think or mind their install base that
they have a simple way to hear listen
get focused on what are the right
interactions and I think that's if we
can if you can solve that that that's
going to certainly make your csms much
more efficient there's a couple things I
would add that are just either they feel
easy and that you ought to do them right
so one is just call summarization csms
do a lot of calls then they spend a lot
of time writing a good
it's remarkable what AI can do on
summarizing calls these days like
getting rid of all the chaffs so whether
it's Zoom or chorus or gong whatever you
use right that technology is very strong
on summarization also I think csms
create a lot of content right so they're
always writing up suggestions strategies
whatnot and I think generative AI can be
super helpful writing the first draft of
those types of suggestions so just two
things that I would do right for the
folks who are asking those I think will
take out an hour of time at the very
least from all your CSM sign nice I do
think the next level that we're looking
for going to Colleen's Point especially
on the internal side is we want any
everyone in post sales to never give a
wrong answer that's right this is what
AI should do I'm excited about AI things
that let us analyze data that we can't
do on our own that it's so complicated
it's in so many silos it's in so many
places that and all of the data on your
custom no matter what tools and systems
you use all of the data will never be in
one place right so if there's a
generative layer on top and the Cs can
get the a 98% correct answer and then
they can do the higher level activity
which has really solve the problem not
just fraking figure out why the problem
is happening that's the next level here
that all the rest of the stuff I think
is yeah make them more efficient and the
emails better and every SDR in the next
12 months is going to run they great
right but the Epic things that will
change the world are taking unstructured
data and structuring them for knowledge
workers and CS can be huge here huge I
literally was on I'll tell you another
terrible story another company where a
multi-billion dollar company I was
talking with a senior executive and this
person had no idea if I was a customer
or not right they had no idea now we
could talk why didn't they log in the
just what imagine there's just a thing
where like you just type in Jason lkin
or SAS and just the answers are just
there for you literally did not know if
I was a customer
an executive at a multi-billion dollar
company had no idea and I've actually
interacted with this executive many
times so this and yeah a point like that
shouldn't happen that's a that's an AI
problem so that's what I'm excited about
and if this can let CS really handle the
real issues and not be firefighters
which is what they really are that would
change the industry because 90% of my
experience at least with startups and
scale UPS CS is firefighters yep turn
Chas yeah and it's great because that's
why I want to invest the million dooll
woman or man not the five million
because that's where it's worth it they
solve your product problems and your
feature gaps and your team gaps and
issues that's the cheapest money you can
invest but it doesn't scale infinitely
and we shouldn't be in 2024 CS shouldn't
be firefighters or Chasers yeah we
should be moved beyond that we should
move beyond that I shouldn't show up to
a qbr and the Cs person doesn't even
know what they're talking about they
don't even know what happened I had a
qbr about a year ago where with the S is
tiny but we're one of the five largest
customers and the Cs person showed up
and said everything's great based on my
data I'm like no you're the worst vendor
we work with but we're gonna stick with
you I'm here because the CEO is here
because I'm GNA stick with you you're
literally the worst vendor we work at
and she ended the zoo oh wow that was
the wrong like she shouldn't have had
that data she should have showed up and
then that is just a fail on multiple CS
should not be doing that I think the
amount of time that CS time and
frustration csms spend hunting down
stuff
that that will be solved by aii I think
that will be the biggest impact and then
the second that happens and you feel
confident about it you can actually have
customers directly access the same
information right you almost bypass a
lot of CSM interactions hey let me
actually talk about some other
interesting things that we found so who
owns the renewal process and this is
really the change over the four years
and surprisingly actually customer
success has gone down right and then
there was a rise this year a big bump in
a dedicated renewals team so not account
managements right so they probably these
are folks do nothing else but renew so
that's actually the biggest change from
9 to 14% a dedicated renewal team it
feels like maybe it's a response to the
downturn colen how does your team work
do your CS folks are they do they own
the renewal process so they work with
their contract management team our csms
absolutely work closely on renewals
making sure their their measur on
customer dollar retention so it's a
massive part of their book of business
but it's a close partnership with our
customer with our contract management
team as well and as I see us looking to
the Future I'd say there'll be lots more
emphasis on that contract management how
we work and collaborate with that team
on renewals so for you it is that you
would put that under dedicated renewals
team your contract management team right
that's what they I would put that under
customer success right now customer
success okay and our contract management
team is within customer success as well
so we've got contract manag managers and
csms they you have account managers as
well for upsell cross sell do you have
another team that do that we tap back
into our sales team yeah sales team a
bad sign I think I missed this data in
the study I think this is very telling
like it's very helpful to see this is
this orange I'm sorry I'm color bying
what is the standard dedicated I think
this is the most telling one of the most
telling statistics like I that people
the renewals may be there may be quotes
in some of these teams the these may be
teams who are tasked with getting
nothing but get I'll tell you a story in
a second if you want her and the worst
one of the Year for me of getting the
most Revenue out of our customers but
I'll give you a related story there is a
public SAS company that we all love okay
hero company that brought in a a
renewals team and earlier this year we
got this email at 10 pm at night and we
pay I think we pay $299 a month for this
product and we paid for five years
happily every month on a credit card
they said it was $60,000
or they would shut off our service in
eight
days was from 299 and shut it off in
angry e clipse and how did you get from
29 to8 first of all they said we needed
60 seats we use eight okay we have eight
people on team saster they said we
needed 60 seats they said we needed the
Enterprise Edition because we were
because we were so big and we wanted
here's the kicker four years prepaid
cash up front or they would shut us off
in eight days eight days that's insane
so what happened so of course I didn't
get my I didn't get so upset I had I'm
saster I had to learn what was going on
and I found out this company we all love
had built an outsourced renewal team
with just one job they only had one job
and they had bonuses and kpis and it was
to bring in as much cash immediately now
as possible okay maybe not cash because
the company's profitable but as much
bookings probably as much bookings as
possible and yeah this threatening thing
like if it got enough folks and we could
afford it if we had to spend 60,000
instead of$ we could but there was no
way right so I had to track it down and
with this person what oh play but
eventually I talked with one of the
senior management team and they said it
was this outsourced renewal team so I
mean it sounds crazy but you could see
how it could happen right incentives are
incentives and the company came under a
lot of stress to grow churn had was way
elevated this public company and so they
said and interestingly I found out the
team reported to the to revenue to cro
it changed the reporting structure of
this company because they're under
stress and and this was one of his ideas
like under granted under enormous stress
not hubspot's had a little bit of stress
this is a public company under enormous
stress so he built this outsourced
renewals team and crazy to get that
email though right that's not even
that's a problem like you're not
thinking but it's the stress that people
have come under the reverberations are
everywhere right they still and so yeah
it's it's but that this is what can
happen if you don't get incentives right
this is the problem so hard to get
incentives in renewals and upsells it's
so hard it's so it's the existential
challenge here right and we were talking
before when we were in in our practice
room you were worried about actually a
long-term trend of Cs moving under the
cro for these exact reasons right so
it's actually it's not surprising that
there's a dedicated renewals team right
in this AR a jump just because I think
in the downturn people are looking for
dollars yeah but why but why I'm
terrified of renewals now yeah when I
get an email about a renewal call an
email from a CS person Hi I don't listen
I'm happy just send me the invoice I
don't need to talk to you if you if I
had a problem you'll hear it from me
okay I don't need to have a call because
the call is a ripoff call coming and
even if there's a price increase maybe
299 to 60,000 is like a little bit high
but just tell me an email I don't want
to get on a call for this to be tortured
by some some human being what for the
bad news yeah and it's almost never
anyone I've ever heard of it's my new C
it's my new person in customer success
or account management or R why do I have
to get on a call yeah let's do one more
I found this very interesting this was
actually a question that the folks that
saster wanted us to ask and that is how
frequently do your CSM be with customers
in person and I was expecting to never
chart to be H yeah yeah because we're we
live in a world of virtual by the way
visiting customers is harder than ever
hey let's go meet I know your
headquarters in Nashville let's go meet
it's I'm not in Nashville my team's not
in Nashville you know what I mean it's
just so much harder to meet people in
person so this must be happening at
places like inbound right the HubSpot
conference or saster annual this must be
happening here because I can't explain
it otherwise I don't know F tiers yeah I
think in certain use cases strategic
accounts you've got like a big situation
that you're working through that's
complex you just need to like sit in
front of the customer and work it out
there's good use cases that's really
eled HubSpot that is reserved for like
very unique use cases essentially like
we're not suggesting to our csms like
get on a plane once a quarter and go
visit your customers just not possible
right there's just too many customers
there are like again the Strategic
accounts where there's good business
case good strategic case but maybe
that's happening once a year and
certainly we're encouraging the majority
of our customers to come to inbound and
we're bringing in our teams to make sure
that we get some face Toof face time
with them there J let me give you the
last word on this right you really think
a lot about face to face yeah so what do
you think the future of face Toof face
meetings look like look if you have a
massive number of customers as Colleen
says you need to create spiderwebs for
them to come to you like in inbound
alone or dreamforce are worth it just
for that reason right yeah and certainly
you but you but the organization can do
one a quarter if you want it doesn't
have to be annual not everything has to
be inbound in Boston with 15,000 people
you can have Regional events once a
quarter we used to do that I would say
this look yeah at some some point it's
to many names per CSM but imagine it's
more manageable right the deal size is a
little bit bigger you're absolutely
right it is hard to just show up into
town and walk into someone's office and
just assume they're actually in the
office anymore like we used to be able
to do but what's really easy and there's
I don't think there's any excuse to do
it if you have bigger customers is every
month hit a city okay but gry we're
going to do SF and then we're gonna do
Boston and hey C spots my customer and
you reach out to Colleen hey I'm in town
for four days Colleen's not in town so
be it but someone else is going to be
like clavio is going to be there or
whoever else is in Boston they're going
to be there you don't have to have a
100% hit rate but you got to do it and
even on our little team we now have a
rule every month this has to happen
every month we have we don't don't
really even have spons customers we have
sponsors every month we have to meet
them in person and once we force this
rule it changed things and you can do it
it's just it's okay that and not
everyone's in the office they're there
sometimes or there're some they're in
another city right maybe they're in
Saskatchewan or north of the Arctic
Circle so be it but even if Colleen has
decided to work in South Chile someone
on her team's probably still in Boston
that's senior enough that's worth
meeting city tours Bunch these up and do
as many bigger Customer Events a year as
you as your marketing team or team can
tolerate at least do one but you could
do
four right you could do one in Boston
and then you could do one in London and
you could do one in sing I saw Yaman in
Singapore when we were in Singapore
right you can't they don't all have to
be perfect just talking to them in
person they don't all have to
structured they don't all have to have
slides could be nice but I'm excited for
the future events and how that changes
and the future of face to face meetings
but for now we're over our time but we
had a great conversation Colleen Jason
thank you so much for being one being
co-sponsors of the study and joining me
today to talk about the findings I hope
everyone learned something thank you
Colleen thank you Jason we'll see
everyone thank youan thanks Jason thank
you all right bye bye